This is the README in the mscheme directory.  

MScheme is an interpreter for a restricted and expanded version of Scheme,
largely in line with Revised^4 Revision of the Algorithmic Language Scheme
(Clinger and Rees, eds., 1991).

MScheme is written in Modula-3 and is shipped together with a stub
generator that converts Modula-3 INTERFACEs to Scheme interfaces.
Documentation is work in progress.  Many examples exist in the associated
directories.

MScheme started as a direct translation of JScheme, by Peter Norvig.
JScheme was written in Java and translated line-for-line to Modula-3 by
the author of this document.  A restricted compiler for closed lambdas was
implemented, plus a number of system extensions, and linkage to the generated
INTERFACE stubs.  

MScheme inherits the main limitation of JScheme: as JScheme uses
the Java stack as a call stack, MScheme uses the Modula-3 call
stack.  As a result, these interpreters do not properly implement
call-with-current-continuation (call/cc).  MScheme also "probably" inherits
the other limitations of JScheme as documented with that tool, plus other
limitations.

MScheme extensions are too numerous to list here.

MScheme can be used in several modes.  Most applications will make MScheme
the REPL of the application and export application functionality into MScheme
by defining symbols at startup.  The modula3scheme library can also be used
to automatically pull in all visible Modula-3 symbols.

MScheme is delivered together with source code for Scheme interpreters using
both standard terminal input and a readline front end written in C, available
elsewhere within CM3.

MScheme has been used to develop a variety of applications in the financial,
scientific, and hardware design computing fields.  Billions of dollars of
stock trading has flown through MScheme.  No bugs are known but the software
is delivered without warranty (see the appropriate license files).

MScheme was written 2007-2008 with enhancements and bug fixes 2009-2018
and is Copyright, Generation Capital Ltd.  It is delivered as an
improvement to Critical Mass Modula-3 and also under its own open-source
license.  The intent of the licenses is to make the software broadly
available for any use without restriction.  Please contact the author
for questions regarding software licenses if the licenses delivered with
the software are insufficient for your purposes.

For more information on JScheme please see Peter Norvig's site:

https://norvig.com/jscheme.html

README updated as of
April 2, 2019
Mika Nystrom <mika@alum.mit.edu>
Pasadena, California, U.S.A.
