CVSup was designed and implemented by John Polstra.  Many others
contributed support, ideas, encouragement, and code.

Elego Software Solutions GmbH <http://www.elego-software-solutions.com/>,
Germany, supported the cvsupd.class work. They also offer support
for CVSup, CVS, Elego ComPact, and general CM consulting. Contact:
info@elego.de.

Sergey Osokin created and tirelessly maintains the
Russian translation of the CVSup FAQ.  It can be found at
<http://www.freebsd.org.ru/~osa/cvsup.html>.

Dima Ruban generously opened up his computer, a FreeBSD sup mirror,
making real-world testing not only possible, but convenient.  In
a world where the first question is usually, "Who are you?" Dima
asked only, "What else can I do to help?"

Peter Wemm, the first CVSup alpha tester, offered enthusiasm,
encouragement, and a lot of knowledge about CVS.

Jordan Hubbard courageously risked his personal CVS repository by
committing to using CVSup for maintaining it, at a time when I
myself was not yet willing to do so.  He tirelessly accepted new
versions for testing, found and reported many bugs, and made many
useful suggestions.  He also hounded me to implement checkout mode,
which otherwise would probably not exist.

Justin Gibbs shamed me into implementing fixups, which have turned
out to be an important feature.

Nate Williams and Satoshi Asami served as alpha testers, reported
a number of bugs, and took the trouble to send me some huge core
dumps.

Poul-Henning Kamp has contributed many good ideas.  His CTM package
was a major source of inspiration for the project.  The client's
"deletion limit" is taken from there as well.  Poul-Henning's
"libmd" code is used in CVSup, and his "phkmalloc", slightly modified
for Modula-3 thread safety, is used in the FreeBSD version of the
Modula-3 runtime library.

SOCKS support works because of the efforts of Darryl Okahata.  He
tore into the Modula-3 runtime libraries, the SOCKS library, and
CVSup itself, finding and fixing bugs in all of them, with no
apparent fear or hesitation.  The result is that we now have SOCKS
support.

An elite few programmers have bravely ported CVSup (and sometimes
Modula-3) to new platforms, sharing with me the lessons learned.  In
a few notable cases, these folks put in heroic amounts of time and
effort.  I hope I haven't forgotten any of them:  Spencer Allain, Stan
Brown, Dean Gaudet, Marc Fiuczynski, Thomas Lockhart, Owen O'Malley,
Matt Mullett, Igor Natanzon, Adam Richter, Fabien Tassin, Rupert
Thurner, and Nanbor Wang.

Olaf Wagner has provided many good suggestions and has implemented
some important features.  He has also fixed a number of bugs.

Martin Birgmeier contributed the code to support RCS file access
lists.

Andrew J. Korty suggested cvsupd's "-f" option, and then was kind
enough to implement it for me.

The following programmers contributed handy utilities for the
"contrib" subdirectory:  Joseph Koshy, Dom Mitchell, John Reynolds,
Wolfram Schneider, Garrett Wollman.

Andrey Chernov and David Dawes have each made several suggestions
which have led to significant improvements in the package.

Ollivier Robert came up with the idea of tunneling CVSup through the
"ssh" port forwarding mechanism.

Mark Ovens contributed significant improvements to the manual pages.

Many thanks to Andrew Tridgell and Paul Mackerras for their elegant
rsync algorithm.

Pluto Technologies International <http://www.plutotech.com/> kindly
supported the development of portions of this work.

This software uses the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest
Algorithm.  It also incorporates Poul-Henning Kamp's higher-level
interfaces to the MD5 functions.

$Id: Acknowledgments,v 1.1.1.1 2009-04-09 17:01:31 jkrell Exp $
