This creates the library llvm22bindings corresponding to llvm version 22.
So it allows Modula-3 access to the llvm libs to build a backend code
generator based on llvm.

To create a functional llvm backend you will have to build and ship
this package and then build and ship the program m3llvm in package llvm22.

And as a prerequisite you will have to have llvm version 22 installed.
You can install the binary only libs available at

  https://releases.llvm.org 

Check the version column and choose at least major version 22, then
click the download link.

The prebuilt binaries are only available for selected platforms and
architectures (usually linux, windows, x86 and arm) The binaries you want
have prefix "LLVM-"

The release page documents the process and links to other sites if your
preference is not available.

It also includes the source archives.
Building llvm from source is very resource intensive and time consuming.

You may also install the llvm22-dev package from your distribution.

After you have installed llvm run
 llvm-config --version
to check the llvm version. 
 
 Posix

  After you install llvm, check that the LIB_DIR1 and LIB_DIR2 values in 
  the m3makefile point to the directories where the posix shared libs live.
  If you have the developer or static libs installed and want to build
  a standalone version read the instructions in the m3makefile in this package.
 
 Windows

  You dont have to copy windows libs to some random directory if you use the
  correct LIB path as setup by using the approved cmd prompt from Visual Studio
  which will point to the x86 or x64 version depending on the one you choose.
  You can check if you have the correct one by typing
   SET > temp.txt
  and examine the LIB and LIBPATH vars which
  should end in x64 or x86.

 Place the libs in in c:/program files (x86)/llvm
 and, - most importantly -
 setup the environment - in system variables -
   have to add the llvm/bin directory to the PATH
   and the llvm/lib directory to the LIB variable which probably wont exist


There are sure to be problems. If so, post to the list or raise an issue on
github.

